# social-network-analysis
# Data and methods

## Data description
For this analysis, I used dataset from RSiena website and were collected between 2003 and 2004 as part of study in Knecht (2008). The data includes four waves of panel data for 26 students of which 17 girls and 9 boys in class followed over their first year at a secondary school to assess the friendship networks at four time points at intervals of three months. Students aged 11-13 at the beginning of school.The assessment of the friendship networks data were done by asking students nominate up to 12 classmates who consider them as good friends. Jaccard index that measured the change amount between each two consecutive waves shows values by .4 which indicates as safe and represent a status of stability. Hamming distance index shows the minimum number of mini steps between each two networks and indicates a sufficient number of observed changes.

## Measures
This dataset contains many variables that based on the students’ responses to survey questions and ranging on scales . For instance, network variable “friendship” was coded 0 = “no” friendship relation and 1 = “yes”, there is a friendship relation, 9 = missing and 10 = not a member of the classroom (structural zero). Change actor variable “delinquency”, rounded average of four types of delinquent activity (stealing, vandalizing, fighting, graffiti) measured in each of the four waves and coded as (1 = never, 2 = once, 3 = 2-4 times, 4 = 5-10 times, 5 = more than 10 times, 0 = missing). Constant actor variables: like sex coded as (1 = girl, 2 = boy), Ethnicity coded as (1 = Dutch, 2 = other, 0 = missing) and other variables like age and religion. “School advice” variable which indicates the school capacities of the student , coded as (4 = low, 8 = high, 0 = missing). Changing dyadic variable “primary” which indicating having gone to the same primary school, coded as (0 = no, 1 = yes).

## Data recoding
The data contains missing values due to the absence of students and were treated using the ad-hoc model using imputation, (Huisman and Steglich, 2008) to avoid unbiased parameter estimates and get accurate standard error estimates. Students who left the classroom cause changes in the network composition and was treated by using the “structural zeros” i.e, all in-out tie variables of the left students were treated as zeros. Recoding the missing and structural zeros in all measures would improve the convergency of our models.
